Supervisor's Name: Simon Gravel
Supervisor's Email: simon.gravel@mcgill.ca
Supervisor's Phone:
Supervisor's Website: http://simongravel.lab.mcgill.ca/Home.html
Supervisor's department: Human Genetics
Supervisor's department (if none of the above):
Course number: HGEN 396 (Human Genetics)
Term: Winter 2014-2015
Project start date: Monday, January 5 205
Project end date: Tuesday, April 14, 2015
Project title: New method for unconstrained global optimization, with applications to genetics
Project description (50-100 words suggested): Many applications in bioinformatics and population genetics require extensive optimization, especially for model fitting in a maximum-likelihood framework. Optimization of these problems is typically difficult due to the discontinuous nature of the functions to optimize, the high number of variables, and the existence of "sloppy" directions. Despite much existing research into the topic of optimization, available methods fall short in terms of practical convergence to the optimum. Widely-used population-genetic programs such as dadi suffer from this poor convergence and require users to expend thousands of hours of CPU time. Recent progress in constrained optimization suggests that better unconstrained optimizers can be designed for realistic problems encountered in population genetics. The aim of this project is to implement such an unconstrained global optimizer for likelihood functions of several variables, ideally comparable or superior to existing methods such as simulated annealing, test the optimizer of realistic genetic datasets, and make the method available to the community as a freely available package that will interface with widely used population genetic inference software.
Prerequisite: 1 term completed at McGill + CGPA of 3.0 or higher; or permission of instructor.
Grading scheme (The final report must be worth at least 50% of final grade): Final grade shall be based on an evaluation of laboratory (or equivalent) performance (40%), a final written report (50%), and an oral presentation (10%) by the supervisor. Details of the evaluation scheme will be provided by HGEN to supervisors and applicants.
Other project information:
Project status: This project is taken. The professor has no more '396' projects this term.
How students can apply / Next steps: After all of the parts of this application forms are completed and the hard copy is signed by the professor and the student, bring the application form and a copy of your unofficial transcript to the Department of Human Genetics (to the attention of Dr.  Patricia N. Tonin, Stewart Biology Building N5.13) during office hours.  
Ethics, safety, and training: Supervisors are responsible for the ethics and safety compliance of undergraduate students.  This project involves: None of the above (NEITHER animal subjects, nor human subjects, nor biohazardous substances, nor radioactive materials, nor handling chemicals, nor using lasers)
Student's Name: Jacob Errington
Student's McGill ID: 260636023
Student's Email (first.last@mail.mcgill.ca): jacob.errington@mail.mcgill.ca
Student's Phone: 5145033100
Student's Program: B.Sc. Maj. Comp. Sci. & Math.
Student's Level (U0 / U1 / U2 / U3): U1
Student's signature - I certify that this course is with a different supervisor and on a different topic than any previous '396' course I have taken. I have not applied for another '396' course in this term: Supervisor's signature - I give my permission for the student identified above to register for this project under my supervision:
Date:
Unit chair/director/designate's name:
Unit chair/director/designate's signature - I certify that this project conforms to departmental requirements for 396 courses:
Date:

